---
layout: post
lang: en
title: Gemina by Amie Kaufman and Jay Kristoff
permalink: /gemina/
introduction: And now, born from the ashes, she’s a warrior in bloodied black.
image: /assets/img/posty/gemina.jpg
category: 'review'
tags:
 - sci-fi
 - book review
 - Jay Kristoff
 - Amie Kaufman

---
Gemina, the second book in Illuminae Files trilogy, was just WOW. I literary couldn't put it down! This time action moves from fleeing fleet to jump station Heimdall, where our main characters are Hanna Donnelly and Niklas Malikov.

At the beginning the book starts a little bit slow. We learn about the everyday life in the space station at the edge of the galaxy. We get to now Hanna, the daughter of the station commander with her rich girl problems and love life. We meet Niklas, her drug dealer, and small time criminal who fell in love with her completely and helplessly. Every one is excited for upcoming Terra Day and can't wait to leave the station. But of course evil corporation is not resting idle and soon the idyll will be over.

I need to say it, the illustrations and sketches are just amazing! I love what the authors did with the book format. You never know what awaits you on the next page. And thanks to that, even though the book has 659 pages, it's really easy to read. I binge read it in two days!

When the main action starts it never stops until the end of the book. It's different from Illuminae, there are other kind of threats looming over our heroes. But it's similarly captivating. I don't want to say too much about it, but you'll be surprised time and time again. The characters who are struggling to survive will show us completely altered side of themselves - and let me tell you, they are so badass!

I don't think I have to say more about the book. All of you who have read Illuminae are probably dying to get your hands on Gemina and don't need any more encouragement from me. Let me say this again: this book is just amazing. I think this new format will revolutionize books composition. The authors proved that there is no boundaries in what you can do with your novel. As long as the story is good you can play with the form however you wish.

Thank you Amie and Jay for this amazing adventure! I am so impressed and enchanted and I can't wait to read Obsidio to learn how this crazy journey ends. If you haven't read the Illumine Files yet, do it now! Like in this moment! You won't regret it, I can promise you that.

Absolutely 5 stars!
