---
layout: post
lang: en
title: A Court of Frost and Starlight by S. J. Maas
permalink: /acofas/
image: /assets/img/posty/acofas.jpg
introduction: To the stars who listen and the dreams that are answered!
category: 'review'
tags:
 - fantasy
 - book review
 - book recommendation
 - ACOFAS
---
A Court of Frost and Starlight is a short novella happening after ACOWAR. There is a lot of mixed feelings about this book. Some fans love it, as all S. J. Maas books, where others felt utterly disappointed with it. So let me say it: it is not a full part of the series as previous book. It's more of few extra days with characters, kind of a gift for fans to not miss them too much while waiting for the next book. So I took this book with not too high expectations.

We meet our beloved characters a few days before Winter Solstice, where they deal with aftermath of war with Hybren while trying to also celebrate that they all survived it. There is a lot of short scenes where we can see how the life in Velaris looks like when there's no immediate threat looming over them.

What I liked in the book is how the author show dealing with grief and suffering after loosing loved ones. When you are practically immortal and suddenly you loose the person you were ready to spent eternity with it's really striking. The need to find a reason to go on every day is a must, but it can't be easy. That's why I really enjoy the story of the weaver.
I also liked that this time the chapters was not only from Rhys' and Feyre's point of view but also Cassian's and Mor's. It was really interesting to see what's going inside their heads and some more of their own stories. I never was a big fan for Nesta and this book didn't change that.

As much as I love the characters the book could use some extra action. Even a small one, like tracking Bryaxis or something similar. Sometimes it was hard for me to focus on the book and I didn't find it as engaging as previous two books. But there is one important announcement at the end of the book (not very surprising though) and the teaser for the next book looks interesting.
If you are a fan of Courts it's a must read, but don't expect too much excitement for it. Treat it as a gift of few more chapters with your favourite characters!

3 stars /5
